README.md, before:


# CuckooHashingHLS
HLS implementation of cuckoo hashing. Refer to paper : https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7577355/

# Directory structure
- `src/hls/`  Contains the HLS implementation
- `src/bsv` Contains BSV implementation
- `bench/` Contains benchmarks of other KV-stores

# Source
1. Hash module
2. Search module
3. Execute module
4. Storage module

# Test Bench
1. Traffic generator (?)
2. Traffic checker (?)
3. Controller test bench


# Minutes of meeting

## 31st october
- Finished first cut implementation of insert, search, delete
- Now, burn the thing on an FPGA and test it.
- Make the test bench first `insert` a bunch of keys, then `search`, then `delete`
- Make sure that the test bench is not the bottleneck!


# Life-saving links for Vivado
- [How to program a Zynq (just C code)](http://blog.dev-flow.com/en/8-first-use-of-the-zynq-7000-processor-system-on-a-zynq/)
- [Setting up drivers for Ubuntu to get USB/JTAG working for Zedboard](http://svenand.blogdrives.com/archive/172.html#.VNTZqmjF-Sp)
- [Detailed tutorial with pictures on connecting to Zedboard](https://www.avnet.com/opasdata/d120001/medias/docus/3/SILICA_Xilinx_Zynq_ZedBoard_Vivado_Workshop_ver1.0.pdf)
- [Correct way to setup drivers for Ubuntu](https://www.xilinx.com/support/answers/66440.html)
- [Exampe of Matmul using HLS](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/application_notes/xapp1170-zynq-hls.pdf)
- [Video clearly explaining how to connect AXI and BRAM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BUVbKonhc2w)

Oh my fucking god, Vivado's own tools don't detect their own serial
ports. Fix this using:

```
sudo minicom -D /dev/ttyACM0 -b 115200 -8 -o
```

# SDAccel craziness
**[link to tutorial we were following](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/sw_manuals/xilinx2017_1/ug1028-sdsoc-intro-tutorial.pdf)**
- The executable is named `.exe` while it's actually an ELF executable (The SDAccel tutorials say it is called as `.elf`)
- the board is supposed to automatically boot into linux, which it does not. One is expected to call `bootd` manually (for "boot default") so it boots ito linux. (The SDAccel tutorials say it automatically boots into it)
- At this point, the SD card is unreadable. It took a bunch of time to figure out that the SD card needs to be mounted by us, and has the mount name `/dev/mmcblk0p1`. (The SDAccel tutorials say that it should be automatically mounted)
- At this point, we are unable to run `hashing.elf`. It dies with a truly bizarre error: `hashing.elf: command not found`. This is almost un-googleable, due to the fact that the same problem occurs when people don't have the correct file name.
- I rewrote `ls` with `hashing.elf` to see what would happen, because I conjectured that the shell was able to run `coreutils`. 
- This dies with a different error `ls: core not found`. I'd luckily seen this during my android days, and knew this was from busybox.
- This led me to google "busybox unable to execute executable", which led me to this [StackOverflow link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1562071/how-can-i-find-which-elf-dependency-is-not-fulfilled) that clued me into the fact that the ELF interpreter is missing.
- When I discovered this, I wound up trying to understand how to get the right ELF interpreter. `readelf -l <exe name>` dumps out `[Requesting program interpreter: /lib/ld-linux-armhf.so.3]`. So, I bravely copied: `cp /lib/ld-linux.so.3 /lib/ld-linux-armhf.so.3`.
- Stuff is *still* broken, but I now get *useful* error messages:
```
zynq> /hashing.elf 
/hashing.elf: error while loading shared libraries: libxilinxopencl.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
```
At this point, clearly we have some linker issues (why does `xocc` not correctly statically link? What's up with it? Why does it expect it to be able to load a shared library? **WTF is happening**). do note that this is _not_ the way the process
is supposed to go according to the tutorial!  
- Of course, there's no static library version of `libxilinxopencl.so`, so that's a dead end. I'm completely unsure if the tutorial even makes sense. 
- This entire chain of debugging is full of luck.

# Considerations of different kinds of KV stores

- [Immutable KV store can perform O(1) lookup](https://discodb.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- Ordered KV Store (like LevelDB) (not done before)
- [LSM on a GPU](https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.05354)

# Reading
Read about the vivado HLS tutorials on using BRAM/DRAM.


# People to contact to burn the FPGA
- Poornavathi
- Vivek Gupta

Commit message:

Add link to the fact that negative slack is OK

README.md, after:


# CuckooHashingHLS
HLS implementation of cuckoo hashing. Refer to paper : https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7577355/

# Directory structure
- `src/hls/`  Contains the HLS implementation
- `src/bsv` Contains BSV implementation
- `bench/` Contains benchmarks of other KV-stores

# Source
1. Hash module
2. Search module
3. Execute module
4. Storage module

# Test Bench
1. Traffic generator (?)
2. Traffic checker (?)
3. Controller test bench


# Minutes of meeting

## 31st october
- Finished first cut implementation of insert, search, delete
- Now, burn the thing on an FPGA and test it.
- Make the test bench first `insert` a bunch of keys, then `search`, then `delete`
- Make sure that the test bench is not the bottleneck!


# Life-saving links for Vivado
- [How to program a Zynq (just C code)](http://blog.dev-flow.com/en/8-first-use-of-the-zynq-7000-processor-system-on-a-zynq/)
- [Setting up drivers for Ubuntu to get USB/JTAG working for Zedboard](http://svenand.blogdrives.com/archive/172.html#.VNTZqmjF-Sp)
- [Detailed tutorial with pictures on connecting to Zedboard](https://www.avnet.com/opasdata/d120001/medias/docus/3/SILICA_Xilinx_Zynq_ZedBoard_Vivado_Workshop_ver1.0.pdf)
- [Correct way to setup drivers for Ubuntu](https://www.xilinx.com/support/answers/66440.html)
- [Exampe of Matmul using HLS](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/application_notes/xapp1170-zynq-hls.pdf)
- [Video clearly explaining how to connect AXI and BRAM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BUVbKonhc2w)
- [Negative slack for ZedBoard is **okay**, I freaked out about this](https://forums.xilinx.com/t5/Design-Entry/2017-2-PSU-1-critical-warning-with-basic-Zynq-design-on-DDR/td-p/789339)
Oh my fucking god, Vivado's own tools don't detect their own serial
ports. Fix this using:

```
sudo minicom -D /dev/ttyACM0 -b 115200 -8 -o
```

# SDAccel craziness
**[link to tutorial we were following](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/sw_manuals/xilinx2017_1/ug1028-sdsoc-intro-tutorial.pdf)**
- The executable is named `.exe` while it's actually an ELF executable (The SDAccel tutorials say it is called as `.elf`)
- the board is supposed to automatically boot into linux, which it does not. One is expected to call `bootd` manually (for "boot default") so it boots ito linux. (The SDAccel tutorials say it automatically boots into it)
- At this point, the SD card is unreadable. It took a bunch of time to figure out that the SD card needs to be mounted by us, and has the mount name `/dev/mmcblk0p1`. (The SDAccel tutorials say that it should be automatically mounted)
- At this point, we are unable to run `hashing.elf`. It dies with a truly bizarre error: `hashing.elf: command not found`. This is almost un-googleable, due to the fact that the same problem occurs when people don't have the correct file name.
- I rewrote `ls` with `hashing.elf` to see what would happen, because I conjectured that the shell was able to run `coreutils`. 
- This dies with a different error `ls: core not found`. I'd luckily seen this during my android days, and knew this was from busybox.
- This led me to google "busybox unable to execute executable", which led me to this [StackOverflow link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1562071/how-can-i-find-which-elf-dependency-is-not-fulfilled) that clued me into the fact that the ELF interpreter is missing.
- When I discovered this, I wound up trying to understand how to get the right ELF interpreter. `readelf -l <exe name>` dumps out `[Requesting program interpreter: /lib/ld-linux-armhf.so.3]`. So, I bravely copied: `cp /lib/ld-linux.so.3 /lib/ld-linux-armhf.so.3`.
- Stuff is *still* broken, but I now get *useful* error messages:
```
zynq> /hashing.elf 
/hashing.elf: error while loading shared libraries: libxilinxopencl.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
```
At this point, clearly we have some linker issues (why does `xocc` not correctly statically link? What's up with it? Why does it expect it to be able to load a shared library? **WTF is happening**). do note that this is _not_ the way the process
is supposed to go according to the tutorial!  
- Of course, there's no static library version of `libxilinxopencl.so`, so that's a dead end. I'm completely unsure if the tutorial even makes sense. 
- This entire chain of debugging is full of luck.

# Considerations of different kinds of KV stores

- [Immutable KV store can perform O(1) lookup](https://discodb.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- Ordered KV Store (like LevelDB) (not done before)
- [LSM on a GPU](https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.05354)

# Reading
Read about the vivado HLS tutorials on using BRAM/DRAM.


# People to contact to burn the FPGA
- Poornavathi
- Vivek Gupta
